
    LEAD NOTES:
    
        -   ISO C ONLY
        
        -   GAME MUST NOT EXCEED 1.44MB IN SIZE
        
        -   PERFORMANCE AT ALL FRAMERATES SHOULD HOLD REGARDLESS 
            OF DEVICE
            
        -   SORRY I KEEP SAYING THINGS LIKE 'MAJOR  IMPROVEMENT'  AND WHAT NOT
            FORGIVE ME I AM TIRED
    
        - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

    + First, we should  hardcode the names of the BOTS and stick them to their
    defaults as we will be leaning on the  existence of BOTS and building upon
    the  possibilities  therin.  Rivet,  Cinder, and Flamey  will be the three
    other bots.
    
    + We want to hardcode these names in because the 'story' of this game will
    happen between the BOTS  themselves,  the action and the combat. This will
    require a major overhaul to them. The major  innovation we want to make is
    that the bots will remember you in-between  matches, and almost  *pick-up*
    conversations  from the last match. For this we will need a memory  system
    for each bot so that all of the  actions and  conversation  history of the
    last match will be remembered individually by all three.
    
    + We want all three BOTS to have individual  memories because we are going
    to be giving these BOTS  distinct  personalities.  Think about  Pac-Man in
    that all of the  different  ghosts  have  their  own  distinct  names  and
    personalities  in game. We want three  distinct  bots so that if a persons
    only experience with the game was to play against the BOTS that they would
    begin to see a story  unfold. The  distinct  personalities  for these bots
    should be apparent  from what they say, how they act in game, whether they
    are aggressive or pacifist, down to what toolset and playstyle.
    
    + Thus we need another  major  overhaul to the current bark system. We are
    getting  warmer on v.0.0.3  but with this new update we need a  significant
    magnitude  more  added  to the  language  pool so that a large  variant  of
    reactions  to different  stimuli that would be  represented  by these barks
    within  the game.  These  barks need to start  'contracts'  from  player to
    player  regardless  of whether they are player or npc. These  contracts are
    essentially  the pointer  keeping track of the one-on-one  in-between  each
    miner. The point of these  contracts  is to have a system in place to where
    conversations can be assigned  different states from the top level in which
    the tone of the  conversation  can be measured  down to the bottom level in
    which each reaction from miner to miner can also be measured. For example a
    bunch of aggressive back and forths will create a hostile  environment that
    will then affect the behavior of the bots dependinng on their personnality.
    This could  theoretically  mean peace  could be acheived if a  conversation
    went towards  amicability. Thus the BOTS themselves will also have shifting
    personalities  to where they will no longer be the same BOT that the player
    interacted  with from the  beginning  of play. The bark  system will be the
    drivinng  engine  behind this  emergent  story. We want bots to be able to
    carry  conversations  and build  relationships  with both the  player  and
    amongst each other.
   
    + On the  technical  level, the bark system as it is while it does present
    some  amusing  back and  forths, it still bugs out and is  nonsensical  at
    times. We need to have a quality  filter  that  enforces  our  established
    intention of gameplay. The bark system should be  sophisticated  enough to
    tell this story match after match, we should aim building this bark system
    towards a full conversation engine.
    
    + In favor of this  direction:  An  overhaul  to the menu  system. We will
    remove How to Play and Miner's  Index with INBOX and LOG. The idea is that
    between  each  time  the  player  opens  the game  there  will be a chance
    depending  on  that  time  and  depending  on  the   personality   of  the
    corresponding bot that they will have left a message for you. This will be
    based on their  memory of your  matches  together and be filtered  through
    their  personality. To pull this off, we need to leverage the conversation
    engine and ensure  that we leave it to two to three  sentences  at max. We
    will need a simple  email style reader  within the menu's GUI that can let
    you see unread  emails and then  reading them marking them as read. We can
    put a (NUM)  next to INBOX on the menu  (for ex.  INBOX (1) or INBOX  (5))
    clearing that number  depending on how many unread  messages there are. We
    won't  have a  response  feature  yet  because we want this to  adequately
    display the  maturity of the  systemic  nature of each BOT and will act as
    the  'save'  between  matches.  LOG will be a much  more  simple  feature,
    allowing the player to read each message said between  player and bot from
    the  beginning  of the game and onward. For that we just need a simple log
    reader  with an up and down  scroll  listing  the  entire  history  of the
    conversations. 
    
    + The  player  will not be able to reset  these BOTS or the  history as we
    want to establish an unmodifiable history between the player and the bots.
    This is  deliberate  because  we want the bots to grow with the player and
    give everyone their own unique  experience  with the bots. However, in the
    debug build we can have it to where you can reset the history just so that
    we can refine this feature.
    
    + Minor fix: Update the local symlink "digs" and "digs-debug"  to point to
    the new version v.0.0.4.
    
    + The blood/gibbing system is nice so far but is still not quite there. We
    want to overall make all  explosions  and blood far more  splashy, in that
    there is a large  simulated  volume of actual liquid for the blood instead
    of  the  same  firework  style  explosion.  We  need a  directional  fluid
    simulation that will splatter the landscape  depending on impact. There is
    still too little  blood and we need a large  amount  more. In  addition we
    want to make  explosions  beefier and send flame  particles and expell the
    dirt and stone  particles  sending  all of this  tumbling.  We want  every
    action  towards  either a miner or the  terrain  to have a john woo  esque
    poppy-ness  to it to  where  the  main  two  reactions  from  the one main
    gameplay  component  of  shooting  either  the  terrain or a miner  always
    elicits a satisfactory punch with very minimal  repetition. We need then a
    more mature  particle  simulation  upgrade  however you could slice it. It
    also needs to work well at the high blocky resolution we have for the game
    because right now it still looks too blocky.
    
    +  In   addition  to  this  we  still  have  yet  to  exhibit  any  actual
    dismemberment  for the miners. We should  remove  full  gibbing  and focus
    purely  on  actual   dismemberment.   Lets  have   every  kill   elicit  a
    dismemberment  from the entry of the attack  (unless its fire or an actual
    explosion  which  should melt the miner for the fire and gib the miner for
    the explosion). My point being we should have the projectile  weapons have
    more   satisfying   umph  to  them  to  where  an   addicting   amount  of
    outcomes  can come  from  each  tool.  Landscape  destruction  and  physic
    simulation  is the bread and butter of this game so we should make tearing
    up the landscape as addicting as getting  kills. Right now the  explosions
    and attacks still leave a Worms-esque  circle wwhere we need more granular
    physic  simulations  to where each crater looks  distinct.  Essentially we
    want a lot more  feedback in this update  making each action  taken by the
    player feeling weighty and powerful.
    
    + The rope system needs improvement. Too much time is being spent shooting
    blindly  wiwthout  connecting, we should have each rope shot auto-aimed to
    wwhatever  was being  pointed as so that the player can feel like they are
    good at the rope either way.
    
    + In  addition  we should have the rope pull in the miner so that they can
    easily  pull  themselves  out of holes  and fling  themselves  across  the
    landscape, the rope should then be more of a grappling  hook (called STEAM
    HOOK  in-game). It should also now let you rope into more than te grid and
    use the  landscape so that more saves can be made before  falling into the
    lava at the cost of the hook burrowwing into the terrain. We should have a
    nice  satisfying puff of smoke come out from the launcher on the miner and
    a puff of dirt or smoke from the  landscape  to give the  impression  of a
    powerful tool. It should also impale miners to surfaces.
    
    + Speaking of impaling, in addition to the  dismemberment  working we need
    full  Havok-like  ragdoll  physics to where each death can have the people
    playground  style of physics to where each death can feel  unique from the
    ragdoll and dismembered  parts going in different  directions based on the
    power of each attack or damage  taken. We want the gore system to be meaty
    to the level of Soldier of Fortune where the game is visceral and violent.
    We need actual guts and bones too. Think of this as a  Doom-style  game in
    terms of violence, and having the ragdoll corpse physics of Halo 2 or 3.
    
    + Finally on this topic we need  headshots  to be  possible,  to where any
    tool  including the steam hook could pull one off (we need this to also be
    treated like a DOUBLE KILL or TRIPLE KILL in that there is in-game  popups
    saying HEADSHOT!). The headshots should be the goriest kill.
    
    + We need a forward dash  mechanic that works in mid-air and on the ground
    that  gives you or the npc a  temporary  i-frame  so that  attacks  can be
    dodged and saves can be made.
    
    + The water in the game is still  pretty  primative,  I'm not able to make
    makeshift lakes or rivers with it, we need a pretty  significant  overhaul
    to the  liquid  simulation  not in just for the blood but also in that the
    water can actually propgate and act like water. Same for lava, when one of
    the magma pockets gets popped in game the magma should drip out.
    
    + Getting a kill should  regenerate  50% of your health (or 50HP? Whatever
    makes more sense and doesn't crashh our engine..)
    
    + The camera still needs more dynamism.  While it does feel smooth I think
    there  should be some  subtle  improvements  like gently  pulling out when
    moving in either  direction or when throwing a projectile,  gently pulling
    in when using close range  weapons  like the hot rod or the  scatterbrain,
    gently shifting in the opposite  direction of the projectile if the player
    is charging up a shot of something and then  slingshoting a little towards
    that direction upon  projectile  launch to give the throw  movement, and a
    slow zoom out upon death. Needs gentle sway from left or right when moving
    in either direction. Really subtle but nice tricks.
    
    + 256  color  palette  revamp.  Right  now the game  looks  great but when
    backported to older systems will not be the accurate  representation.  Use
    the DOOM  palette and find the closest  possible  conversion  of colors to
    evoke this era of DOS games.

    + In this patch the DROPSHIP will be  introduced, a ship that flies across
    the top of the sky  (see the  airdrops  in  earlier  Worms  games)  at the
    beginning  of the  game to drop off all the  miners.  As its  flying,  the
    player  can  press  fire to launch  out of there so that  there can be new
    first  spawns  each  time  between  player or npc. It will be like a comet
    across the sky with a blue glow from its  exhaust,  and will be an exhibit
    of the games  voxel  engine,  rendering  a space  ship  similar to how the
    original  Dark Forces had Jane Orrs ship flying  around in the sky. At the
    end of each match as the lava begins to rise, there will be a message from
    the person  flying the dropship that will show up at the top of the screen
    similar  to how the barks  show up, only the voice is far  deeper and more
    crunchy, using the same bark system to essentially say different  versions
    of a message to the players and npcs that the  dropship is coming and that
    they should  prepare for  extraction. As it flies over,  players/npcs  can
    either land on it  themselves  using  jumping and  steampacks OR using the
    grappling  hook to latch onto it and be swung out of the match and waiting
    out the rest of the match  while the lava  rises.  There  will be an alarm
    sound using the games sound engine that will follow the broadcast from the
    pilot that will help alert them to the rising lava and to look for the jet
    so that they dont die and for a bit of fun.

    + The  skybox  needs a major  overhaul.  Think of how  Worms has  parallax
    scrolling  backgrounds  and  clouds, we should  have  different  layers of
    parallax  background.  Depending  on which  level is  chosen,  we can have
    several  different onion layers of other terrains rendered ffrom that seed
    but given some fog to differentiate them. This can be variant in scope but
    should be able to give the  background  layers  the  ability to evoke vast
    caverns or mountainscapes. The clouds should be real-time raymarched cloud
    systems  that  emulate a variety of patterns.  There will be no sun in the
    game but we should still have a white little moon at the top most layer of
    the  parallax  to where each stage has a puppet  theater  style  where the
    world  unfurls  behind  the front  action of the stage and we can  further
    showcase the voxel and lighting system.
    
    + The  lighting  system  should be improved but I'm not sure how, maybe we
    need  shadows  and actual  global  illumination?  Not too much to where it
    interferes with the intended  palette of the art style but enough to where
    we can have a powerful array of lighting tools to make emergent  paintings
    with the game  itself from each shot.  Something  subtle  though,  nothing
    overstated,  just  enough  to  where  the  voxel  and  lighting  combo  is
    completely utilized to its fullest.
    
    + While we are doing a major  increase  to the  ragdoll  physics we should
    also  implement a QWOP style  skeletal  animation  system to the miners so
    that we can  actually  have walk  cycles, jump and  steampack  animations,
    pain, firing, etc different  states because I think the basic no animation
    style looks kind of crap and doesn't  adequately  exhibit our voxel system
    from the  side-view.  We dont need an increase in fidelity by any means we
    just need more fluid animation of the miners to where it really feels like
    they are running and jumping  through the landscape like N++ or super meat
    boy.
    
    + On  top of the  NPC  behavior  being  greatly  expanded  upon  from  the
    personality  and  memory  system  we will  also need  improvements  on the
    lower-level.  We need more states and far more action pools for each state
    to pull from. That way we dont have any random  behaviors like both of the
    bots killing  themselves  randomly or just giving up out of nowwhere.  I'm
    not saying these behaviors are  unacceptable  but if a bot kills itself it
    should be because of its personality and not an error in its  pathfinding.
    We wwant a wide berth of  possibilities  to the point that our personality
    system can actully  shine. Perhaps an NPC could be more of a strategic one
    and decide to dig  underground  more or take more  evaisve  measured,  and
    another  could  be  aggressive  and use the most  powerful  tools to kill,
    essentially  having the three other bots as archetypes  for typical player
    behaviors possible within this game (we should identify those three)
    
    + We need to use the voice  system to have  actual  death  sounds from the
    miners on death. I'm  imagining  a far more  garbled  and crunchy  classic
    game-over style moan that gives a comedic kick to each death. There should
    be grunts too. I really like how the current  speak-and-spell  style voice
    sounds but I do wish its phonetics  could have a little more definition so
    that  its  more  obvious  what  words  are  being  spoken  and we can have
    something closer to an actual  text-to-speech  system however rudimentary.
    We should  also have  different  voices for each of the three bots so that
    they can be distinct from each other  vocally.  While  thinking on the bot
    thing  again, they should have their own  distinct  looks if they  already
    don't. They  should have  distinct  pitches,  tenors, and speeds from each
    other to really lock this down.
    
    + In the customize game menu there should be the ability to customize your
    miner.  You can  change  the color of your  outfit,  helmet,  etc but only
    purely  cosmetic.  You should be able to  customize  the pitch, tenor, and
    speed of your voice to match the bots
    
    + We need to add the ability to have one more bot to single player so that
    there  can be true  four  player  battles  without  having to add a second
    player  and  that  the  previous  things I wrote  about  the bot  could be
    established.
    
    + Minor fix: Jumping again in the air will engage the steampack so long as
    they continue to hold down the jump button, npcs can double jump too.

    + The power of each tool needs improvment:
    
        [NOTE: WE NEED MUZZLE FLASHES FOR ALL PROJECTILE BASED WEAPONS]

        * PULASKI:  This should cut through the  landscape  (and miners)  like
        butter. Right now it bounces back immediately and it should be more of
        a 'do not get in the way of this thrown object' type deal. The graphic
        is also too  small, it should  resemble  an actual  spinning  axe when
        thrown. Deaths from this should be particularly nasty.
        
        * POPPER:  This is totally  broken  right now. It is  supposed to be a
        semi-automatic  pistol  that has  explosive  bullets  that tear up the
        terrain but do poor damage. The range  currently  is very  limited and
        the sound is very off. Three or four shots of this should pop a miners
        body part off (unless there is a headshot),  but it is good in a pinch
        for digging through the dirt with its fire rate
        
        * SMOKER: The smoke  particle  system is not  advanced  enough yet for
        this to be truly  satisfying.  Thrown grenades should plume a trail of
        smoke. The  explosion  should eject far more smoke,  enough to obscure
        the  battlefield  so that it could be used to make it harder to be hit
        in the  moment.  The  cooldown  needs to be higher.  Also,  there is a
        glitch where it bounces off the miner and bounces back so quickly that
        it bounces too much and causes a bunch of  noise/damage. We want it to
        HURT if you get hit  directly by the smoker but not kill you if you're
        at full HP, and we should have it stop bouncing  after a direct hit so
        it can then roll down the landscape. The sound is also unsatisfying, I
        like the one  sound we have  when its  thrown  but  there  are no thud
        sounds from bounces or clink sounds from hitting rock and no sound for
        the explosion of smoke itself. It should also follow the same logic as
        the  firecracker  in that if you hold  down the mouse  button  you can
        charge up the throw rather than spamming throws.
        
        * HOT RAIL: This works nicely so far for digging tunnels easily but is
        greatly  nerfed  by a bug  where the miner  walking  through a certain
        configuration of dirt will kill the miner and this frequently  happens
        before any meaningful tunnel could be made meaning the bug is frequent
        enough to where  dying in the  tunnel  being  made by the miner  while
        making  the  tunnel is the  expected  behavior  of the tool. We should
        extend the  functionality  to where just clicking without holding down
        shoots out a fire bullet  projectile  that works like any other pistol
        except  it does  low  damage  but  high  burn to the  miner,  and then
        clicking and holding down begins the tunnel digging  functionality.
        
        *  HYDROSHOT:  Lets have a small but subtle  kickback  when using this
        that can be exaggerated when pointing down so that we can have the fun
        trick of using the hydroshot as extra  steampack fuel making it a less
        effective steampack that could be used either in a pinch or to elevate
        the  height  of a jump or to link  the  steampack  jumps  so that  the
        cooldown  could be managed by shooting this down. Should also generate
        a lot  more  water so that we can  actually  test our  water  physics.
        Miners should drown if completely submerged for long enough if someone
        traps one in a pool or waterfall or something like that.
        
        * GIANT  FUCKING  HAMMER: This should echo the hammer from Red Faction
        Guriella more in that using this is explosive,  throwing whatever soil
        it hits in every  direction. The simulation  should be so that this is
        powerful enough to tumble certain  landscapes. We essentially need the
        attack  power and the  destructive  powwer of the hammer to be greatly
        exaggerated,  along  with a  slighlty  increased  kickback.  Much more
        feedback  needed  from  destroying  either  a miner or the  landscape.
        Smashing the landscape  should be a shower of different  particles and
        smashing  a  miner  should  be  like a blood  firework  sending  their
        gibs/bones/guts  flying  and there  being a mist of blood in the wake.
        
        
        * BOLT  ACTION:  This is very off from what its  supposed  to be. It's
        supposed  to be a revolver  like weapon  (think of how the R8 works in
        the new Counter  Strike).  You hold it down, one second  passes, and a
        powerful  revolver  like shot happens with some  knockback,  leaving a
        big puff of smoke. The projectile  should be far more pronounced as it
        is  supposed  to be a glowing  hot rod, even  though it is  hitscan it
        should  have a  projectile  of hot steel  (think of the bolt from Half
        Life 2) that impales the landscape (and immediately  severs a miner in
        half or  removing  their legs  etc.). Much more  feedback  needed. The
        sound is way too puny, we want it to be a  powerful  pop.  Needs to in
        general feel way more powerful and sound way more powerful.
        
        *  SCATTERBRAIN:  Needs a lot  more  feedback.  Currently  there is no
        muzzle  flash, the sound  isnt  strong/aggressive  enough,  there's no
        reload sound effect, and the death from this with the current  physics
        system results in a gib. We want this to usually split the miners into
        a bunch of pieces, but rarely a full gib unless maybe every shell hits
        the miner. The death  needs to be so that  killing  someone  with this
        will PAINT the  landscape  red.  Feedback vs terrain  needs to be more
        powerful as well, needs to be more  destructive annd essentially be so
        hot that it melts the  terrain a bit,  scalding  it and steam  hissing
        from the exit  craters.  Needs to be a  godlike  weapon  visually  and
        physically.
        
        *  FIRECRACKER:  Currently the thrown  projectile is far too small and
        not  glowing.  We need a hot  glowing  projectile  that has a distinct
        trail that the eye can follow. The  explosion  is  satisfying  but not
        satisfying  enough, we want a variety of chunks being blown out of the
        landscape  and  repeated  use of this  weapon  to  cause  fires in the
        tunnels dug by them. There  should be  significant  knockback if being
        attacked  by these from the  explosion  itself to bolster  the smaller
        damage given. The trail left by the thrown  firecracker should fall to
        the ground and leave a light trail.
        
        * BORE  DRILL:  Should be  renamed  to 'BORING  DRILL'.  Needs a wider
        drill  impact  because the current one is too skim.  Should also drive
        the player  closer to the ground if activated in mid-air to make kills
        with it easier.
        
        * MINING  RAIL:  Needs to have far more kick. Needs to  penetrate  far
        more  terrain so it needs a much further  reach, to actually be a rail
        gun  similar  to the ones of 90s fame. You  should  be able to blast a
        line  through a  mountain  pretty  easily and snipe with it. Should be
        renamed   game-wide  to   'RAILSHOT'.   Its  impact   craters   should
        smolder.  The sound  needs to be far  beefier.  Charging  this  should
        gently pan the camera towards where the crosshair is pointing  instead
        of away from it so that sniping could be possible.
        
        * 

    + The random dying from digging through the landscape needs to be fixed.
    
    + The mouse  should be able to be used in the menu so that  someone  could
    click on options
    
    + There should be more time limit options including unlimited
    
    + The particle  simulation and physics  simulation is doing good but still
    needs improvement. Because of the games low drawing resolution  explosions
    are blocky while still being  satisfying.  Blood  included. In addition to
    more detailed  particle systems we need more Red Faction Guriella inspired
    simulation  to where the  landscape  will  collapse in onto itself so that
    miners could  technically cave each other in or even get a kill by blowing
    a chunk out of the  ceiling and having it fall down onto a miner.  Gravity
    momentum  etc should apply to all voxels and groups of voxels  should have
    their own states stored to mime how physics affect these  clusters.  Think
    of Poly Bridge,  Besiege, Beam ng, Half Life 2, People  Playground and how
    these phyiscs  systems work, we want an equitable  system  powering all of
    the play so that a large  breadth of  systemic  play is possible  and that
    player  creativity  can  cause for  rewarding  deaths. I want  blowing  up
    terrain to have dirt and stone  pooling down into holds made by explosions
    instead of static circle holes in the land being made.
    
    +  Lets  remove  Miners vs Machines  right now and the 'modes' in general,
    lets just focus on one mode.
    
    + Lets make voxel  models for each weapon so that our miners can  actually
    carry them and aim them and the muzzle  flashes can fire out of something.
    We are working with a low  resolultion  drawing  style so these can be low
    poly we just need  something  for the  miners to hold. Re: muzzle  flashes
    from the  earlier  stuff  about the  weapons I think we should  have light
    flash on the miner  shooting a projectile for added effect. Lets make each
    muzzle flash a particle explosion that has wisps of smoke and make it like
    a tiny firecracker each time to help with the combat feedback.
    
    + Remove all  instances  of HOW TO PLAY and MINERS  INDEX and QA FEEDBACK.
    Remove other  boilerplate  stock text like GPL3 OR LATER or the V.0.0.3 or
    the control  prompts in the menus. We want a more  miniamlist  Worms style
    menu this time around.
    
    + Use provided font engine to replace the gold/yellow stock font with more
    arcade/90s DOS appropriate fonts.
    
    + Cherry on top: A Worms-style slow mo instant replace of the coolest kill
    of the match. Can be  decided  based on a certain  amount of factors  like
    highest  award/killstreak  or most  kills  with one shot  etc. Also at the
    post-game  screen we should have awards like  'Pyromaniac'  'Grave Digger'
    etc related to the game so that players can have medals.  These can affect
    the barks and personality  memories so that bots can remember what you won
    and  what  they won and  rivalries  can form  between  a bot that has been
    killed or has frequently killed another and you but also can gain favor if
    teamed up with  another  player to kill one  player or if a truce is made.
    Just some fun stuff.
    
    + The text spacing  should be a tiny bit more so that all of the text isnt
    touching eachother its just a tiny bit too close just needs a pixel or two
    of space inbetween
